Tea in a nutshell part 1: Extension configuration, installation and directory structure (#2136)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-CoreApi: Documentation/ExtensionArchitecture/Tutorials/Tea/DirectoryStructure.rst

..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt

..  index::
    Tutorial Tea; Directory structure
..  _extbase_tutorial_tea_extension_configuration:

============================
Create a directory structure
============================

Extbase requires or defaults to a certain directory structure. It is considered
best practise to always stick to this structure.

> On the first level EXT:tea has the following structure:

Reviewer: I  recommend to link EXT:tea to the GitHub repository.

..  code-block:: none
    :caption: Directory structure of EXT:tea

>     $ tree typo3conf/ext/tea

Reviewer: We should avoid `typo3conf/ext` as this is gone for Composer-based extensions using typo3/cms-composer-installers v4 (available as RC for TYPO3 v11 and AFAIK v12 relies on it). The extension is then installed under `vendors/ttn/tea` with a symlink or `Resources/Public` to `_assets/<some hash>/`

>     $ tree typo3conf/ext/tea

Author: ```suggestion
    $ tree /path/to/extension/tea
```

    ├── Classes
    ├── Configuration
    ├── Documentation
    ├── Resources
    ├── Tests
    ├── composer.json
    ├── ext_emconf.php
    ├── ...
    └── README.md

Directory :file:`Classes`
-------------------------

> The folder :file:`Classes` has to contain all PHP classes provided by the

Reviewer: Hmm. Maybe "should contain" instead of "has to contain" and further on "not available in the [default|recommended] autoloading". In can also use "src" folder, but have to adjust the autoloading ;-)
Or "has to contain all PHP classes by convention".
Just as a food for thought ;-)

> The folder :file:`Classes` has to contain all PHP classes provided by the

Author: ```suggestion
The folder :file:`Classes` should contain all PHP classes provided by the
```

> extension. Otherwise they are not available in the

Author: ```suggestion
extension. Otherwise they are not available in the default
```

:ref:`autoloading <autoload>`.

See also the general chapter on the folder :ref:`extension-classes`.

> In the :file:`composer.json` we defined that all PHP classes should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the :file:`composer.json` we have defined that all PHP classes are
```

> automatically be loaded from the directory :file:`Classes`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automatically loaded from the :file:`Classes` directory:
```

..  tabs::

    ..  group-tab:: Composer

        ..  code-block:: json
            :caption: EXT:tea/composer.json, extract
            :emphasize-lines: 4

            {
                "autoload": {
                    "psr-4": {
                        "TTN\\Tea\\": "Classes/"
                    }
                }
            }

>     ..  group-tab:: Legacy

Reviewer: This example does not match with the sentence above ("In the :file:`composer.json` we defined") - why then ext_emconf.php?

Author: Fixed

        ..  code-block:: php
            :caption: EXT:tea/ext_emconf.php, extract
            :emphasize-lines: 4

            $EM_CONF[$_EXTKEY] = [
                'autoload' => [
                    'psr-4' => [
                        'TTN\\Tea\\' => 'Classes/',
                    ],
                ],
            ];

> Further this line defines the namespace all PHP classes in this directory

Reviewer: This sentence sounds a bit bumpy.

have to be situated in to be found by the :ref:`PSR-4 autoloading <autoload>`.

The folder :file:`Classes` contains several subfolders:

..  code-block:: none
    :caption: Directory structure of EXT:tea

>     $ tree typo3conf/ext/tea

Author: ```suggestion
    $ tree path/to/extension/tea
```

>     $ tree typo3conf/ext/tea

Reviewer: Here also: avoid `typo3conf/ext`.

    ├── Classes
        ├── Controller
        ├── Domain
        |   ├── Model
        |   └── Repository
        └──  ViewHelpers

Extbase is based on the pattern Model-View-Controller (MVC). And you can already
find directories for the **model** and the **controller** here.

In most cases the **view** is handled by classes provided by the framework
and configured via templating. Therefore there is no folder for the view as a
whole.

Additional logic needed for the view can be provided by **ViewHelpers** and
should be stored in the according folder.

..  note::
    ViewHelpers are a feature of the Fluid templating engine. See also the
    chapter :ref:`fluid-custom-viewhelper`.

Directory :file:`Configuration`
-------------------------------

See also the general chapter on the folder :ref:`extension-configuration-files`.

The folder :file:`Configuration` contains several subfolders:

..  code-block:: none
    :caption: Directory structure of EXT:tea

>     $ tree typo3conf/ext/tea

Author: ```suggestion
    $ tree path/to/extension/tea
```

>     $ tree typo3conf/ext/tea

Reviewer: Here also: avoid `typo3conf/ext`.

    ├── Configuration
        ├── FlexForms
        ├── TCA
        |   └── Overrides
        ├── TsConfig
        |   ├── Page
        |   └── User
        ├── TypoScript
        |   ├── constants.typoscript
        |   └── setup.typoscript
        └──  Services.yaml

:file:`Configuration/FlexForms`
    Contains the configuration of additional input fields to

>     configure the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    configure plugins.
```
Without switchableControllerActions you might have several plugins now. Would also like to see a link to FlexForm explanation.

:file:`Configuration/TCA`

>     Contains the TYPO3 configuration array (TCA) as PHP arrays.

Reviewer: Would like to see a link to TCA as quick reference.

:file:`Configuration/TCA/Overrides`
    Can be used to extend the TCA of other extensions. They can be extended
    by direct array manipulation or (preferred if possible) by calls to
    API functions.
:file:`Configuration/TsConfig`

>     Contains configurations for the TYPO3 backend on page or user level in

Reviewer: Would like to see links to page TSconfig and user TSconfig as quick reference.

    the syntax TypoScript. This extension does not feature TS
:file:`Configuration/TypoScript`

>     Contains configurations for the TYPO3 frontend. In some contexts the

Reviewer: Would like to see a link to TypoScript reference.

    configuration contained here is also considered in the backend.
:file:`Configuration/Services.yaml`

>     Is used to configure technical aspects of the extension including

Reviewer: Would like to see a link to DI chapter as quick reference.

Author: fixed

    automatic wiring, automatic configuration and options for dependency
    injection.

Directory :file:`Documentation`
-------------------------------

The folder :file:`Documentation` contains the files from which the
documentation is rendered. See :ref:`extension-files-documentation`.

Directory :file:`Resources`
---------------------------

See also the general chapter on the folder :ref:`extension-Resources`.

The folder :file:`Resources` contains two sub folders that are
further divided:

..  code-block:: none
    :caption: Directory structure of EXT:tea

>     $ tree typo3conf/ext/tea

Author: ```suggestion
    $ tree /path/to/extension/tea
```

>     $ tree typo3conf/ext/tea

Reviewer: Here also: avoid `typo3conf/ext`.

    ├── Resources
        ├── Private
        |   ├── Language
        |   ├── Layouts
        |   ├── Partials
        |   └── Templates
        └── Public
            ├── CSS
            ├── Icons
            ├── Images
            └── JavaScript

:file:`Resources/Private`

>     All ressource files that do not have to be loaded directly by a browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    All resource files that do not have to be loaded directly by a browser
```

Maybe: "... must not be accessible by a browser ..."
This distinction is more necessary with typo3/cms-composer-installers v4.

>     **should** go in this directory. This includes Fluid templating files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **must** go in this directory. This includes Fluid templating files.
```

Author: Is it? Some people put for example  scss files in the public folder even though they don't have to be accesssible by the browser? Main rule is: When we use **must** we describe what happens otherwise

Reviewer: With typo3/cms-composer-installers v4 everything in Resources/Public is accessible by browser. As it is also with v3 as it is not restricted by .htaccess. I would say so, yes. If you want to be more polite say "strongly recommended". I want to emphasize that only accessible artifacts should be placed in Public.
Remark: I also heard from people who placed PHP scripts into Public :-(.

Author: There are also installation that have an Assets folder and then some Building processes that put all publicly available files into public. that is also legit...

..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt

..  index::
    Tutorial Tea; Directory structure
..  _extbase_tutorial_tea_extension_configuration:

============================
Create a directory structure
============================

Extbase requires or defaults to a certain directory structure. It is considered
best practise to always stick to this structure.

> On the first level EXT:tea has the following structure:

Author: ```suggestion
On the first level `EXT:tea <https://github.com/TYPO3-Documentation/tea>`__ has the following structure:
```
